h1. Installation

This readme explains how to run install the newscredit project and it's dependancies onto your local machine.

h2. Assumptions

We assume you're running Python 2.5.x on your machine. Python 2.6.x should work but has not been fully tested. You can find out which version you have by typing @python --version@. We also assume you have MySQL installed from the MySQL MacOS download rather than the MAMP edition. You can get MySQL from http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.1.html#downloads.

The last thing we assume is that you have Git installed on your computer. If not you can get it from http://git-scm.com/download.

h2. Installing the Python Libraries

All of the following commands should be entered into your console. For MacOS users this is @terminal.app@

h3. Setuptools

The install process is made a lot easier if you have setuptools installed. You can check this by typing @easy_install --help@ into your console. You should see a list of usage instructions. If instead you get @-bash: easy_install: command not found@ you don't have setuptools installed. Please visit http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools and follow the instructions on their site for installing.

h3. Python Libraries

Newscredit requires a few additional libraries to be installed to allow it to work. We're going to use setuptools to install them as it is the easiest and fastest way.

All of the required libraries are listed below, along with their corresponding @easy_install@ package name. To install them run the command @sudo easy_install PACKAGE_NAME@ replacing @PACKAGE_NAME@ with the package name listed below. The @sudo@ at the beginning allows the files to be installed to system areas of the computer. This means you will be asked for your password when running the command.

* Django. package: @django@
* Django Extensions. package: @django_extensions@
* Django Tagging. package: @django_tagging@
* Werkzeug. package: @werkzeug@
* Simplejson. package: @simplejson@
* BeautifulSoup. package: @beautifulsoup@
* MySQLdb. package: @MySQL-python@

h3. Open Calais Library

Newscredit uses the OpenCalais API to gather information about articles so we need to install the Python library for it. To do this enter the following commands into your console.

# @cd ~/@
# @svn co http://python-calais.googlecode.com/svn/trunk python_calais@
# @sudo easy_install python_calais@
# @rm -fR python_calais@

What this does is take you to your home folder and then 'checksout' the latest version of python calais from GoogleCode. We then use easy_install to install the package. The @rm -fR@ at the end deletes the python calais code we checked out from Google as we don't need it once it is installed.

h2. Getting the Newscredit Code

The Newscredit code is stored on Github. To download a copy to your computer you will need to *clone* the code. To do this you need to:

# @cd@ to a location on your computer you wish the code to go. On MacOS this could be @~/Sites@
# Clone the code:
@git clone git://github.com/markng/newscredit_api.git@

We now need to get the Solango submodule. To this type:

# @cd newscredit_api@
# @git submodule init@
# @git submodule update@

h2. Installing the Search Server (Solr)

From the Solr homepage http://lucene.apache.org/solr/ follow the links to download the latest zip version to the location where you wish the code to go. On MacOS this could be @~/Sites@.

To install the server type the following:

# @cd@ to a location on your computer you wish the code to go. On MacOS this could be @~/Sites@
# @unzip apache-solr-1.3.0.zip@

After unzipping Solr you can remove the zip file if you wish. @rm apache-solr-1.3.0.zip@

h2. Create a database

Using whichever method you prefer, create a database in MySQL which django can use.

h2. Configuring your localsettings

We've now got all the code we need to run the server. Copy @localsettings.template.py@ in the @newscredit_api@ folder as @localsettings.py@.

Using your preferred textedit edit @localsettings.py@ and fill in the details for your local environment. Make sure you complete these fields:

* DATABASE_ENGINE
* DATABASE_NAME
* DATABASE_USER
* DATABASE_PASSWORD
* SECRET_KEY
* SOLR_ROOT - At the moment this will be @something/apache-solr-1.3.0/example@ (the easiest way to get this is to @cd@ into the apache-solr-1.3.0 folder unzipped earlier and then type @pwd@. You can then copy and paste the path, but don't forget to add @/example/@ onto the end).
* CALAIS_API_KEY

h2. Setting up the database and search schema

Using the console we'll now install the database and solr schema. To do this do the follwoing:

# Change directory to the newscredit_api folder. @cd ~/Sites/newscredit_api@
# Run sync db and create a new superuser by following the prompts. @./manage.py syncdb@
# Create the solr schema. @./manage.py solr --schema@

Congratulations everything is now installed! See usage.textile for instructions on running the system.